Now let us check your first exercise.
Now that you know how Gaussian smoothing works,
I would like you to take a look at this implementation of a smoothing filter.
Let's take a look at the Gaussian smoothing in here.
The first thing we want to do in the code is we want to load an image from file.
We are loading the image into an Open CV matrix structure and as you can see here,
every time I'm using Open CV functions or data structures,
I have the name space in front of the variable name CV.
If you don't want to do this you can simply put using
name space as CV at the beginning of your code,
and this spares you from writing out CV every time.
I'm doing this here for educational purposes so that you can clearly see when I'm using
Open CV material or maybe self written functions or functions from other libraries.
So if you don't want to do this,
simply use name space for this.
Now in open imread,
I'm inputting string which is the location of the image
we will be using to apply the Gaussian smoothing into it's called IMG1gray.
Let's take a quick look at this image.
It's the one on the bottom.
It's highway scenario recorded in
Germany with a proceeding vehicle directly in front of us,
a car on the left lane,
and the truck on the right lane.
The image on top is the original image which we will not be using as of now.
We will be using the grayscale image and the idea here is
to smooth over the grayscale image to remove some noise and also
to prepare the image for
more advanced computer vision functions which we
will see very shortly in this section here.
Let's jump back to the code and see how this can be done.
Now what we have here is
the Gaussian filter kernel and
this two geometric structure which you can see here basically
reflects the 3D shape of the Gaussian bell curve which you have seen in the section code.
We have a maximum in the middle,
it's currently at 41.
We have smaller values in the outer perimeter and this is
the Gaussian curve which we will shift over our image to smooth it over.
Now in this line here,
we are applying the actual filter,
we are using the filter to-do function from Open CV to do this.
It takes as input the image,
it takes as an input the result image which we wanted to take a look at just now,
and also takes some other parameters and I
encourage you to read the documentation or filter 2D,
and also read about the different argument it takes
and maybe you play around with those arguments a little bit.
Now once the filtering is performed,
we simply show the resulting output here,
and we will take a look at it right now.
Let's compile the code,
see what it does.
It compiles okay, so once we have compiled it,
let's run the code,
and what you can see here is a completely white image,
so something didn't work out.
Now your job is to find out what has not been done correctly here,
correct the error in the code,
and then run it again so that
the output image looks smoothed over just as we wanted it to be.
Okay now when you run the code,
you will notice that the result will not look as expected even though
the filter kernel just looks like the one you have seen earlier on this section.
Your job now is to figure out what's wrong and then
correct the mistake by adjusting the code appropriately.